6-8 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello and welcome to 6-minute English from BBCLearningEnglish.
I'm Beth.
And I'm Neil.
Don't forget that you can find a transcript and a quiz for this episode on our website, BBCLearningEnglish.com
Now, today, Neil, we're talking all about solving crime.
Do you think you'd be a good detective?
Actually, no, Beth.
I think my brain's not very good with details.
Today, we'll be talking about how artificial intelligence might help detectives and the police
investigate crimes.
But first, I have a question for you, Beth.
In the UK, lots of people enjoy watching fictional detectives on TV.
These programs are called murder mysteries, and tell the story of a detective solving a crime.
In 2020, a magazine called The Radio Times asked readers who their favorite TV detective was.
So, who do you think was the most popular?
Was it a Sherlock Holmes, B.
Aircure Poirot, or C. Miss Marple?
Surely at Sherlock Holmes.
Well, you sound very sure, but I will reveal the answer at the end of the program.
Now, when the police are investigating crimes in the real world,
their techniques are often quite different from what we see on television.
Yes, solving crimes involves collecting and reviewing lots of evidence, like DNA, fingerprints, or CCTV.
All of this work takes a lot of time, so can AI help police speed up the work and even solve crimes?
That's the question listener Alister had for the BBC Radio 4 program, The Artificial Human,
and host Alex Krotowski wanted to know more.
So, Alister, why are you asking this question?
Tell us a little bit about yourself and where are you coming from?
So, my name is Alister and I'm a serving police officer.
My background is with investigation.
I'm looking at artificial intelligence and thinking, what can it do for me?
Alex asks Alister to explain where he's coming from.
This means explain his perspective or point of view.
In informal English, we'll often ask someone, do you get where I'm coming from?
And we're asking whether they understand our opinion or perspective.
Alister explains that he's interested in how artificial intelligence could help solve crimes
because he's a police officer with a background in investigations.
If you have a background in something, it means most of your previous work or experience
which related to something.
For example, I work as a producer at BBC Learning English now making programs,
but my background is in classroom teaching.
Alister talks about using artificial intelligence for training and asks, what can it do for me?
This means how can artificial intelligence help or improve something?
When a crime happens, police officers have to collect and review a lot of information to find evidence.
When you have a lot of information to review, it can be difficult to know what's important
and find patterns which might be relevant to the crime.
But Professor Ruth Morgan, an expert in crime and forensic science,
thinks AI could help speed up police work.
As she told BBC Radio for us, the artificial human.
I think we're seeing a renaissance in the pattern recognition.
From surveillance, so finger marks, footwear marks.
There's been lots of challenges with those forms of evidence over the last 10 years,
probably go a little bit out of favour.
And yet what we're beginning to see now with AI is that you can take a photo of a mark with your phone,
compare that mark to the database and get real time in sight.
Ruth says there's a renaissance in looking at patterns in evidence such as finger marks or footwear marks.
Renaissance means new interest or activity in a particular topic or area.
This kind of evidence went a little bit out of favour over recent years
because of the excitement around DNA evidence.
If something is out of favour, it's less popular or appealing.
But AI could mean that patterns in finger marks or footwear marks are useful in solving crimes again.
This is because AI can be used to compare a picture of a mark with the database of pictures from other crimes
and get real time in sight.
The adjective real time means the information is presented at the same time that it's happening.
Yes, AI can compare lots of information very quickly, which makes finding patterns in evidence much easier and more reliable.
There are some problems with using AI to solve crimes, though.
To find these patterns, lots of private information would need to be collected,
and police usually have to give clear reasons why they need access to certain information in their investigations.
It's unlikely an AI powered robot would ever replace a detective anytime soon.
Yes, and that reminds me of your question, Neil.
I said that Sherlock Holmes was maybe the most popular detective was I right?
You were absolutely right.
And I think people should try the quiz on our website to find out how much they know as well.
It's at BBCLearningEnglish.com.
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learned, starting with the expression where you're coming from,
which means you're a opinion or perspective on something.
Your background is the area that you have the most work experience in.
The question, what can this do for me?
Is how can this help or improve things?
Renaissance means new interest or activity in something.
If something is out of favor, it has become less popular or appealing.
And the adjective real time means information is presented as it is happening.
Once again, our six minutes are up, head to our website to find more episodes of six-minute English at BBCLearningEnglish.com.
Bye for now.
Bye!
6-minute English from BBCLearningEnglish.com.